docs/iam: creating an access key (#155)
tigrisdata/tigris-os-docs: docs/iam/create-access-key/index.mdx

# Creating an Access Key

Clients need access keys to store files on Tigris. You can mint new access keys
from the [Tigris Dashboard](https://console.tigris.dev).

First, go to the [Tigris Dashboard](https://console.tigris.dev).

![](./1-get-started.webp)

Click on Access Keys in the left-hand menu.

![](./2-access-keys.webp)

Click on the Create New Access Key button.

![](./3-blank-form.webp)

Give the key a name and assign the desired permissions. If you're unsure, you
can always come back and edit the permissions later. Some common permissions to
give:

- Admin access for your developer machine (not recommended for production)
- Read-only access to all buckets
- Editor access to a specific bucket or set of buckets (such as a bucket for a
  specific project or service)

![](./4-filled-out-form.webp)

Click Create.

![](./5-creds.webp)

Copy the credentials to your notes or password manager. You will not be able to

> see them again. Then you can use them with [any tools you want](/docs/sdks/s3/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see them again. Then you can use them with [the AWS S3 SDK and CLI](/docs/sdks/s3/) or any other S3 compatible system.
```
